Bloomberg

Design a stack to look for min element in O(1).
why database is better than creating text files
Hash tables with key and value to be a binary tree
Write a function to return a histogram of character frequency from a string.  
print uncle nodes in a tree
Difference between hash map, tree map and linked hash map, paranthesis validation
Describe how hash map works
Find the shortest path from one corner of the matrix to another
how do you hold the 8 most frequently viewed URLs. Implement a delete and undo feature for these similar to the one in Chrome.  
Tic Tac Toe game
smart pointers, polymorphism
Two numbers occured once, every number occured twice
Given a vector, remove min and max and calculate the average
Given array of numbers, find the 2 largest numbers in the array
designing a data structure that stores counts of words in a text file as well as every line.  
Finding islands in a grid
paranthesis matching
Given an array of integers, delete the max and min numbers (both could appear more than once) in place. Do it in O(n) without shifting.
Garbage collection?
difference between C++ and java
Paint question
Design a publisher-subscriber event-based system that alerts the subscribers on stock price changes. Allow the subscribers to subscribe for rolling statistics as well. Optimize this as much as possible.
Implement a cache (hash table) put and get in C  
Recursion problem for shading in a figure  
Develop a heap class that supports max()  
Intersection point for k linkedlists
Design a database for a car rental system.  
How would you know if a double has four decimal places?  
Design an iterator class for BST
Convert decimal to hex
Find kth largest element in a sorted 2D array
Convert string to number
Algorithm to compress strings (aaabbc -> a3b2c1).  
Understanding of OOP
Given a number, find the next smallest palindrome larger than the number. For example if the number is 125, next smallest palindrome is 131
Given two link lists, return the longest common postfix. Given a Queue, write a function which every 5 seconds reads a value from the queue. and many other  
How to find K min elements from an unsorted array of integers.

1. Implement vectors in c++ 2. Difference between vectors in stl and arraylist in java 3. You have a sorted array with duplicates. Return the leftmost index of the given value. 4. What's the use of templates in c++ when you can be using objects for everything? 5. When do you get a stack overflow? Can you give a size to the stack? 6. Showed me a template definition from c++ library. Asked me what the InputIterator type is. 7. What happens beneath an asynchronous process? 8. What is the difference between a class template and a function template in c++?  

How to implement shared pointer

Gave me some code with a base and derived class with some mistakes that I had to find, like a non-declared and thus non-virtual destructor.  
Print matrix in a spiral way
Reverse an integer
Find the second smallest element in a BST
Reverse a linked list with O(1) space
Print the path between two nodes in a BST
given an integer input stream, and more and more integers are still going in. build an algorithm to return 3 minimum integers at any point of time.  
Group strings in vector by anagrams  
what nearly all stl functions have in common? (iterators as arg) 
What data structure would you use to display stocks, given that they are continuously updating and you only want to show 5 on the screen at a time?  
Given a real-time list of traded stocks, need to get the last N (arbitrary) unique traded stocks. Write addTrade(string ticker) and getLastNUnique(int n) functions with efficient runtime. 
Implement square root
How will you impelment C++ auto pointer
Remove duplicates from an unsorted singly linked list.
 system design is tiny url design.  
Design a data structure that permits insertion of keys and a lookup of the top k most inserted keys. 
You have a matrix of size nxn, you have to print the diagonal elements of matrix starting from the corner [n,n] then [n,n-1], [n-1,n] then [n,n-2],[n-1,n-1],[n-1,n]........ upto [0,0].
How do you write an algorithm to count all subsets of strings in a string. 
 Longest common subsequence, and max Value Path in a grid, they were both Dynamic Programming.  
How to implement a spell checker
Design an elevator system


