

Write code to track hits for a web server. Implement methods to track a hit as well as once to return 
the hit count for the last 5 minutes  


How could you group files in nested directories (like a multidimensional array) and group files of the 
same content in a similar array?  


Write a server side function to record the number of hits a page has and another function to return 
the number of hits in the last 5 minutes.  


Write a web crawler (follow up question: make it multithreaded)  

Develop a system to count web hits in the last 5 minutes 


Question was "Given a pattern and a string - find if the string follows the same pattern
Eg: Pattern : [a b b a], String : cat dog dog cat "


Simple situation about Dropbox file syncing.
Grouping same file in folder  

implement a function that returns the number of visit in the most recent 10 minutes, and a log function 
to be called every time there is a new visit.  


Design an ID allocator which can allocate and de-allocate from a range of 1-1,000,000


How to find duplicate files in storage  

Multi-threaded token bucket algorithm  

Frenemy: Find if a given string matches any path in a labeled graph. A path may contain cycles


you are building a website and how would you count the number of visitors for the past 5 min. 
Follow ups included exploring potential concurrency issues and how would you fix it.  


how to design a web counter that returns number of visitors in last 5 mins 

Deduplication from a file system in any programming language of your choice  

Find all duplicate files by content in your filesystem. 

Implement two functions that assign/release unique id's from a pool. Memory usage should 
be minimized and the assign/release should be fast, even under high contention. 


Question was "Given a pattern and a string input - find if the string follows the same pattern 
and return 0 or 1.
Examples:
1) Pattern : "abba", input: "redblueredblue" should return 1.
2) Pattern: "aaaa", input: "asdasdasdasd" should return 1.
3) Pattern: "aabb", input: "xyzabcxzyabc" should return 0.  

1. Design a link shortening URL system. Discuss the tradeoffs of different approaches.

2. (Coding) Write a basic file system and implement the commands ls, pwd, mkdir, create, rm, cd, cat, mv. 
This was done on my own computer, in the interview room, with a 1.5 hour time limit.  

http://blog.gainlo.co/index.php/2016/09/12/dropbox-interview-design-hit-counter/?utm_source=glassdoor&utm_campaign=glassdoor&utm_medium=92116

Given an array of integers eg [1,2,-3,1] find whether there is a sub-sequence that sums to 0 and return 
it (eg 1,2,-3 or 2,-3,1)

How do you implement a dictionary tree? 

Implement a function that searches a file system for files with identical contents. 

Design a spell checking algorithm

You have a number of meetings (with their start and end times). You need to schedule
them using the minimum number of rooms. Return the list of meetings in every room. 

Design an LRU cache. It's a data struct with a capacity. Beyond this capacity the least recently 
used item is removed. You should be able to insert an element, access an element given its key, 
and delete an element, in constant time. Note that when you access an element, even if it's just 
for a read, it becomes the most recently used.












